a few months ago I set out on the rather
ambitious challenge of creating a game
that can seamlessly render infinite
space without loads or transitions
typically in video games you'll have a
transition period between the in space
and on planet areas and I wanted to see
if we can get rid of that but of course
that's really hard the way modern video
cards work is you have a maximum render
distance and a minimum render distance
you can set this distance to be in
inches feet yards miles or late yours
you can't render anything further or
nearer than the maximum and minimum
render distance video games get around
this in a number of ways the most common
one is to have a skybox which renders
faraway objects at a much smaller scale
and then later renders near objects at a
larger scale for the illusion of lard
award the trouble with this method is
that typically a player can't interact
with the skybox I solve this problem by
creating multiple render levels which
phase in and out depending on the
distance from the camera to the object
being rendered in code name it and if
the player has the ability moves
seamlessly from the surface of the
planet into outer space and this is
accomplished by dynamically rendering
the terrain of the planet with these
render levels to make sure that each
part of the planet's surface is rendered
inside the minimum and maximum render
distance here you can see the different
colors representing the parts of the
terrain that are rendered in different
rendered levels the task of rendering
large world also runs into problems with
floating point numbers format of numbers
that computers use to store information
about distances it's very good at adding
two very small numbers or at adding two
very large numbers but if you had a very
large number two very small number the
very small number is shifted out and
lost what this means is you can move an
ant around in its anvil or you can move
a planet around distant star but you
can't move an ant around on the planet
of a distant star some games have
approached this problem by rendering all
objects relative to the camber that's
how just cause 2 was able to render its
400 square mile world while avoiding
precision problems but the distance just
from the earth to the Sun is about a
hundred and fifty million kilometer and
double precision flow
claims only have 15 digits of resolution
so in order to render infinite space we
need another solution so I created what
I call scalable floats which are base
1000 number structure that can
accurately add and subtract values from
less than one billionth of a meter to
about a dozen trillion kilometers
without losing any precision when values
are added together now we can move an
ant around on the surface of Jupiter
without any problems currently that
gives us the precision to simulate an
area many times the size of our solar
system about losing any accuracy and
this could easily be expanded by just
adding more digits to the base 1000
number at this point the project is
beginning to get beyond the scale that
one person can handle on his own for
example currently the planets are just
perfect spheres and to make them have
beautiful terrain and collision with
that terrain there needs to be a system
in place that can stream huge amounts of
data in and out of memory in the GPU
which is task that entire teams of
expert programmers at the world's
largest game companies have trouble with
on a daily basis this is well beyond the
scope of what I can do by myself so I've
decided to open source the project if
you'd like to help in building an
infinite universe game you can find the
source code on github just look in the
description of this group if you want to
learn more about some other things that
I made you can visit my company's
website at lunar workshop com or to hear
what I'll be up to in the future you can
follow me on twitter at V no BS thanks
for listening